README.md, before:

# git - important points and commands

### git  : Local Version System
### github , bitbucket , gitlab : Central Version Control System

### What is GIT ?

```
Git is a version control system used by almost all the organizations to version control your development 

``` 

### How can you control parallel development and how multiple developers can contribute and develop the code parallely ?
```
Git branches is the only solution for parallel development and parallel contribution
```

### What is a Git Branch ?

```
A branch is a version of your repository, or in other words, an independent line of development. A repository can contain multiple branches, which means there are multiple versions of the repository.

Among all, main / master branch is something which you should always a checkout to create a new /feature branch
```

### Git Branch Naming Sttagegy

```
Branch Naming will be based on your organization.

Either you will work on developing,
    a) a feature 
    b) a hotfix
    c) a bug

So, majority of the times, your branch names should be the following way

    a) feature/story-number 
    b) hotfix/ story-number 
    c) bug/story-number
    d) story-number

```

### Common GIT Commands

```
$ git branch                                       // Shows you the list of branches and your current branch
$ git branch brancName                             // Creates a branch from the main branch 
$ git checkout branchName                          // Switches to the created branch
$ git checkout -b branchName                       // Creates a new branch from the main branch as source and swithes to the created branch
$ git push origin remoteBranchName                 // Pushes the changes to the remote branch; If the branch doesn't exist on remote git, it creates by the same push   

```

Whenever you push any changes and if they look good and stable on main branch, then you will raise/create a create a Git Tag.

Git Tag : Creating a name to a commit, which can referenced later and using that we can make the software.


Git and Linux are like oceans, infinite things are there to learn. Both of them are created by the same person : Linux Torvolds

Commit message:

Stage file is added  and update the readME file with merge conflict definition

README.md, after:

# git - important points and commands

### git  : Local Version System
### github , bitbucket , gitlab : Central Version Control System

### What is GIT ?

```
Git is a version control system used by almost all the organizations to version control your development 

``` 

### How can you control parallel development and how multiple developers can contribute and develop the code parallely ?
```
Git branches is the only solution for parallel development and parallel contribution
```

### What is a Git Branch ?

```
A branch is a version of your repository, or in other words, an independent line of development. A repository can contain multiple branches, which means there are multiple versions of the repository.

Among all, main / master branch is something which you should always a checkout to create a new /feature branch
```

### Git Branch Naming Sttagegy

```
Branch Naming will be based on your organization.

Either you will work on developing,
    a) a feature 
    b) a hotfix
    c) a bug

So, majority of the times, your branch names should be the following way

    a) feature/story-number 
    b) hotfix/ story-number 
    c) bug/story-number
    d) story-number

```

### Common GIT Commands

```
$ git branch                                       // Shows you the list of branches and your current branch
$ git branch brancName                             // Creates a branch from the main branch 
$ git checkout branchName                          // Switches to the created branch
$ git checkout -b branchName                       // Creates a new branch from the main branch as source and swithes to the created branch
$ git push origin remoteBranchName                 // Pushes the changes to the remote branch; If the branch doesn't exist on remote git, it creates by the same push   

```

Whenever you push any changes and if they look good and stable on main branch, then you will raise/create a create a Git Tag.

Git Tag : Creating a name to a commit, which can referenced later and using that we can make the software.


Git and Linux are like oceans, infinite things are there to learn. Both of them are created by the same person : Linux Torvolds.

### Merge Conflict :

```
A merge conflict occurs when a version of a file has been submitted that is newer than the version of the file you have started to base your changes on. In this blog, we look at what merge conflicts are, how they happen in Git, and how you can avoid them with a few simple tips to streamline your development

```
